# Xanje-Gene-Calculator
Custom gene calculator that simulates the breeding of unique, digitally drawn animals

I created this program to help my friend more efficiently complete her Xanje drawing requests. As I understand it (I never actually used it myself), Xanje is a website/community where people can trade/collect customly drawn pets and animals. These animals or pets can be anything in the range of small rodents to large dragons/dinosaurs. All of these 'pets' are customely drawn, and each has it's own unique patterns/physical characteristics. The patterns/physical characteristics any specific animal displays is determined by its underlying genetic code. Pets can be 'bred' with one another to produce offspring with different genetic code, so long as the partents are of the same species. When I initially created the program, each animal that my friend drew would have four main genetically determined characteristics: Line art, Markings, Color Mutations, Physical Mutations, and Fertility (if the animal was female). When two of these creatures were 'bred' together, several punnett squares were needed to properly calculate the full genetic code of the offspring. For the line art and the markings, only one characteristic would be present in any one creature, meaning only one punnett square is needed to calculate these traits. For the color mutation and physical mutation aspect, any varying combination of the five color mutations and the sixteen physical mutations could present themselves within a creatures genetic code, so a much more complex system of punnett squares was needed for these calculations. My friend also had to take into account the probability of one of these mutations being displayed in the first place, since there was only a small chance they would even present themselves. This probability statistic was dependent on the mother's fertility. (ie, the higher the fertility, the lower the probability the offspring displays a genetic mutation). My friend used to perform all of these calculations by hand, using Google's random number generator, which was execessively tedious and unnecessary. I created this program to do all of the genetic calculation and probabilities for her, so she could spend more of her time actually drawing. 
